INTRODUCTION "ts

 

 

a
About wine: aS
Wine is a beverage made from fermented grape and other fruit juices with lower amount
of alcohol content. ~
Quality of wine is graded based on the taste of wine and vintage. This process is time
taking, costly and not efficient.
A wine itself includes different parameters like fixed acidity, volatile acidity, citric acid, of 7
residual sugar, chlorides, free sulphur dioxide, total sulphur dioxide, density, pH, a
sulphates, alcohol and quali an
sulphates, alcohol and quality. 5
Problem statement: : =
In industries, understanding the demands of wine safety testing can be a complex task
for the laboratory with numerous analytes and residues to monitor. B a
But, our application’s prediction, provide ideal solutions for the analysis of wine, which
will make this whole process efficient and cheaper with less human interaction. a O
a
A
fa
aa
ia
Zz
OBJECTIVE 8
i
Our main objective is to predict the wine quality using machine learning through Python an
programming language
A large dataset is considered and wine quality is modelled to analyse the quality of wine a
through different parameters like fixed acidity, volatile acidity etc.
All these parameters will be analysed through Machine Leaming algorithms like random forest
classifier algorithm which will helps to rate the wine on scale | - 10 or bad - good. I
Output obtained would further be checked for correctness and model will be optimized =
accordingly. :
It can support the wine expert evaluations and ultimately improve the production.
@

 
  
  

pH

i 5 | Density

Alcohol

BD ATA Fixed Acidity
B) ES B nd PT| @ iN Volatile Acidity

Citric Acid
Residual Sugar
Chlorides

Free Sulfur
My dioxide

ee Total Sulfur
MAW. dioxide

Sulphates
] Quality

To measure ripeness
Density in gram per cm3
Volume of alcohol in %

Impart sourness and resist microbial infection, measured in no. of
grams of tartaric acid per dm3

no. of grams of acetic acid per dm3 of wine

no. of grams of citric acid per dm3 of wine
Remaining sugar after fermentation stops

no. of grams of sodium chloride per dm3 of wine

no. of grams of free sulphites per dm3 of wine

no. of grams of total sulfite (free sulphite+ bound)

no. of grams of potassium sulphate per dm3 of wine

Target variable, 1-10 value
